
2 Submission details
This coursework is worth 50 points from the overall mark of 100 for this unit. Marks are
specified for each task later in Table 1. A report will be your main method of assessment.
Your code will be tested based on the output and performance of your implemented solutions,
and cross-checked with your report.
Note that this is an individual coursework. You need to submit the project report along
with the code, which should include an appropriate README file. Models along with the
training logs and datasets are also required to be submitted with a shareable link. It is your
responsibility to check that you correctly submit your work. Once you have submitted to
Moodle and Online Drive (e.g. OneDrive), you should download your submission and verify
it.
The submission deadline is 17th May, 2026, 8 pm. Your submission should be uploaded to
Moodle and should consist of the report PDF and the code. Models, training logs and the
datasets should be shared as a zip file with a shareable link where we can download all the
required files. Note that any files that are uploaded or edited after the deadline will NOT be
assessed.
Reports longer than 10,000 words will not be read. High-quality reports are typically much
shorter and more concise. After the main part, please attach the references and appen-
dices, if any (these are excluded from the word count). The submitted code must be well
commented (indicating major steps). You should ensure that it is possible for us to run your
code and replicate your results. This implies that the code is self-contained without any
absolute image paths, and that any README files with environment setup, if required, are
provided.
Your report should demonstrate and evaluate your results. It must include figures of ap-
propriate resolutions. Evaluation can be qualitative (how it looks) and, wherever possible,
quantitative (tested numerically). You should also concisely explain your approach to solve
each task, the choices you make (e.g. hyperparameters, etc). The marks will be decided
based on the marking guideline specification that we will follow for this unit.
Late submissions
The university policy will be followed for late submissions. If a piece of work is submitted
after the submission date, the maximum possible mark will be 40% of the full mark. If the
work is submitted more than five working days after the submission date, the student will re-
ceive zero marks. Requests for extensions should be made to the Director of Studies.
Lecturers and tutors cannot approve extensions. Please make sure you are familiar with the
department’s coursework deadline extension policy.
3 Tasks
3.1 Task Overview
In this coursework, you will only need to choose ONE of the following two tracks:
2
• TRACK A: Pix2Pix (Paired image-to-image Translation). Example: edges → photos,
semantic labels → street scenes, sketches → images.
• TRACK B: CycleGAN (Unpaired image-to-image Translation). Example: horses ↔
zebras, summer ↔ winter scenes, paintings ↔ photos.
Please confirm the track you choose at the very beginning of your report. You can choose
your preferred track, and there will be no difference when we assess your work. For each
track, you are expected to (details are provided later):
• Study the related concepts, GAN, Pix2Pix, CycleGAN.
• Study the chosen model and its loss functions.
• Train the model on datasets with different setups.
• Gain a deep understanding of the metrics and evaluate the results.
• Extend and analyse the method with different experiments.
3.2 GAN-related Theory
You are expected to understand the theory behind GAN, Pix2Pix, and CycleGAN. Your report
must include a section explaining these techniques, no matter which track you choose. This
could include the mathematical explanation along with the details of their neural network
architecture design, etc.
3.3 Implementation Requirements
You are NOT required to re-implement Pix2Pix or CycleGAN from scratch. In fact, as is
common practice, you should start from a well-established open-source implementation, In
this coursework, the official repository must be used as the base implementation for further
extension and tests. The official repository is available at: https://github.com/junyanz/
pytorch-CycleGAN-and-Pix2Pix/tree/master.
Apart from the minimum requirements to run the official code of Pix2Pix or CycleGAN, you
can only use the following libraries:
1. PyTorch: torch, torchvision
2. Computing & Data Processing: numpy, scipy, pandas
3. Image Processing: opencv-python (cv2), Pillow (PIL), scikit-image
4. Visualisation & Logging: matplotlib, seaborn, tensorboard, tqdm
5. Metrics related: scikit-learn, torchmetrics. Other metrics implementations are possible
only if clearly explained.
The following are strictly NOT allowed:
6. Other Generative Model Frameworks: You must not replace the GANs models in this
CW with alternative generative models such as diffusion-model-related libraries, pre-
trained image-to-image tools, etc.
7. High-Level AutoML Training Tools: This includes AutoML frameworks and automated
hyperparameter search platforms such as auto-sklearn, etc.
3
8. Pretrained Image Translation APIs or Services: External inference services such as
HuggingFace hosted pipelines for image translation.

3.4 Datasets
You can choose one of the datasets provided in the official code.
• TRACK A: Pix2Pix: cityscapes, night2day, edges2handbags, edges2shoes, facades,
maps
• TRACK B: CycleGAN: apple2orange, summer2winter yosemite, horse2zebra,
monet2photo, cezanne2photo, ukiyoe2photo, vangogh2photo, maps, cityscapes,
facades, iphone2dslr flower, ae photos
Alternatively, you can choose your own datasets. Note that your chosen dataset should have
at least 400 images in the training set. You are encouraged to use a larger dataset for later
extension tasks.
3.5 Extension Tasks
As aforementioned, in this coursework, we are trying to tackle practical problems that you
may face in “real-world” scenarios. The following extension tasks (ET) are commonly consid-
ered as alternative changes you can make from the given repository for the original methods.
Some ETs may be related to the data conditions you will face. Note that you are not expected
to obtain “better” performance compared to the original setup. You are required to provide a
detailed analysis of these extensions.
3.5.1 ET1: Loss Function Engineering
The provided loss functions in the official repository may work very well on the tested
datasets. In real-world scenarios, however, it is very often not the case. Also, new loss
functions are often introduced after the tested methods are published. In this first extension
task (ET1), you are required to apply at least one novel loss function to the current frame-
work. You can choose to add the new loss function or replace part/all of the original loss
function.
For any loss function, you are required to present the motivation for using it, along with the
theory behind this loss function. You can use the existing loss function implementation, but
you may need to make some changes when applied to your framework.
Try to analyse: With different loss setups and combinations, what results can we obtain?
What hyperparameters can we adjust?
3.5.2 ET2: Architecture Design Choices
In this extension task, you are expected to make some changes to the network architecture.
Similar to ET1, you need to provide a motivation for this change. You can use the existing
implementation and merge it into the current code.
4
Try to analyse: With different network architectures, what results can we obtain? What
hyperparameters can we adjust?
3.5.3 ET3: Evaluation Metrics
In practice, different metrics may be used for different purposes. For example, in this course-
work, some may say, “My GAN looks good with well-generated images.” However, a qualita-
tive result may not be sufficient, and we need some robust quantitative evaluation pipelines.
In this ET3, you are required to implement at least one additional quantitative evaluation
metric beyond those provided in the official repository to evaluate the generated images with
different setups.
Try to analyse: With different setups and a new metric, do we get consistent evaluation
results? Do we have the setup where the generated images look better, but the quantitative
result is worse? Why does this happen?
3.5.4 ET4: Limited Data Conditions
In practice, we often do not have enough training data. In this ET, you are expected to reduce
the training data in your datasets and test the robustness of the framework. Please test your
framework with the conditions that only 50% and 25% of the training sets are available.
Try to analyse: With a shortage of training data, do we still get consistent evaluation results?
If not, how can we improve it?
3.5.5 ET5: Tests based on the mixture of previous ETs
As you have noticed, the previously introduced ETs are design choices where we can test
the framework from different perspectives. In this ET, you are expected to have two “setups”
that combine previous ETs and do further analysis with quantitative and qualitative results.
For example, when we only have 25% of the training data (ET4), are we still keeping the
same backbone (ET2)? When we change the backbone(ET2), can we get consistent results
using the same evaluation metrics (ET3)?
You are expected to explain these “setups” clearly with details, including the experiments
you conducted, hyperparameter tuning, etc.
3.6 Computing choices
In this project, you are suggested to use a machine with GPUs. Here are three recom-
mended ways:
• Use your own laptop/desktop: The tasks in this coursework do not require large GPU
resources. Hence, it should be possible to use your own machine to do all the tasks if
you have a dedicated GPU (a CPU-only machine will not be enough though).
• Online resources: Online resources such as Google Colab can also be considered.
However, if you are using a free version, you may expect some usage limitations.
• Department of Computer Science Server: You can also use the department GPU clus-
ter Hex cloud (https://hex.cs.bath.ac.uk). Before you use Hex, please read the wiki
(help) pages very carefully and follow the rules when using it. For example, although
we have multiple servers on Hex, you can only use some of them based on access
rights.
5
When you submit your code, please mention all the details about the machine you used,
e.g. Operating System, GPU version, etc. This will help us replicate and cross-check your
results. Note that you cannot use “shortage of computing resources” as a reason to ask for
a deadline extension.
4 Criteria for Marking
Task Mandatory? Max mark
10. Study and explain the related concepts, GAN, Pix2Pix, CycleGAN Y 10
11. Train the model on the dataset with default setup and obtain initial results Y 10
12. ET1: Loss Function Engineering Y 17
13. ET2: Architecture Design Choices Y 16
14. ET3: Evaluation Metrics Y 17
15. ET4: Limited Data Conditions N 15
16. ET5: Tests based on the mixture of previous ETs N 15
Max mark with only mandatory tasks 70
Max mark with mandatory tasks and at least one optional task 85
Max mark with all tasks 100
Table 1: Maximum mark for each task.
The maximum mark per task is detailed in Table 1. There is no penalty for not implementing
a mandatory task - you will simply get 0 on the tasks that you skip. The marking criteria are
explained in Table 2. Note that the report is the most important part of your assessment. We
will run your code and check your output.
Please bear in mind that we care more about the explanation of what you have done and the
interpretation of the results, not the numbers/results themselves. Below you can find further
details about what we expect to see in a good report for each task:
• Task 1. The related concepts should be well-explained, incorporating the relevant
theory and technical details. You are encouraged to use figures and equations to help
illustrate the concepts.
• Task 2. Simply explain how you run the code and show the results with the default
setup.
Criterion Description
Explanation of approach The method is explained well, and it clearly details how the
various steps are carried out.
Analysis of performance The performance is analysed and evaluated well with both
quantitative and qualitative evaluation.
Analysis of parameters The sensitivity of the task with respect to relevant parameters
associated with the algorithm are analysed.
Code output The code runs without errors: can run the training process,
testing the given models and replicate the results.
Table 2: Marking criteria.
6
• Tasks 3-5 (ET1-ET3). What loss function and optimiser did you use? What architec-
ture/metric did you try? If you tried more than one, did they differ in performance?
What is the motivation for using these losses/architecture/metric? What are the pros
and cons of the original setups? How did hyperparameters affect your results? Analyse
common GAN training issues (mode collapse, instability), etc.
• Task 6 (E4). How do you split the datasets? What is the difference compared to the
training with the full dataset? Does it get the “best” result faster? How did hyper-
parameters affect your results? How can you improve the results with limited data?
What efforts have you made? Analyse common GAN training issues (mode collapse,
instability), etc.
• Task 7 (E5). What design choices did you make for this extension task, and why?
When combining these “pre-conditions” in ETs, what findings do you obtain? Do you
need a new set of hyperparameters?, etc.
Expected report structure:
17. Introduction
18. Theoretical background
19. Experimental setup/details (hardware info, datasets, training details)
20. Original results
21. Extension tasks with additional results
22. Discussion/Findings
23. Conclusion